# Introduction  {#introduction .list-paragraph}

Founded in 2009 as Aliyun to meet the internal needs of the Alibaba
eco-system, Aliyun became Alibaba Cloud in 2017. To date, Alibaba Cloud
dominates the cloud market in China and Asia while AWS dominates the
market outside Asia. As a result, Alibaba Cloud holds 40% of the Chinese
market while it is fourth in the world, behind AWS and Azure.

Alibaba Cloud can also count on the immensity of China to launch
full-scale experiments and improve its technologies at a speed unmatched
anywhere in the world. This is being done in particular in the field of
artificial intelligence and Deep Learning. One example among many, City
Brain, which was launched in 2017 at the Computing Conference. City
Brain optimizes urban traffic in real time: traffic lights, requesting a
police patrol, adapting the pace of public transport according to the
traffic in real time, etc ...

Alibaba Cloud also differentiates itself in other ways. For example,
Alibaba Cloud offers a huge number of services, many of which are not
available at AWS. Other cloud providers are far behind.

It also differentiates itself on price, offering rates in the vast
majority significantly lower than AWS. Security is also taken into
account at all levels on Alibaba Cloud, as in ECS instances.

For western companies wishing to have a presence in China, Alibaba Cloud
is the obvious choice because of its leadership position and because
Alibaba Cloud takes into account China's regulatory requirements at the
technical level and provides support for Internet Content Provider (ICP)
processes that range from deploying a website in mainland China to
generating revenue or providing a platform in China.

In this book, you will discover the essential services of Alibaba.
We'll start with the basics, setting up a network with VPC and VSwitch.
Then we will see how to manage users with RAM. We will then use an
essential service, virtual machines with ECS and then scaling these ECS
instances with Auto Scaling and high availability with Load Balancing
with SLB. We will also look at object storage with OSS and accelerated
content distribution with CDN and DNS record management. Then we will
study databases with RDS focusing on the MySQL engine. Then we will
implement Cloud Monitor and secure Cloud services with Anti-DDoS.
Finally, we will implement Docker image storage with Container Registry.

We will then look at three case studies. The first one is the launch of
an ECS instance which allows for example to run Docker containers or to
install other software. The second is the creation of a RDS database
with the MySQL engine. The third is the hosting of a static website on
OSS and its distribution via CDN.

